How to use the SLEAP HPC module with SLURM (#40)
neuroinformatics-unit/HowTo: docs/source/programming/SLURM-arguments.md

(slurm-arguments-target)=
# SLURM arguments primer

```{include} ../_static/swc-wiki-warning.md
```

## Abbreviations
| Acronym | Meaning                                      |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| SWC     | Sainsbury Wellcome Centre                    |
| HPC     | High Performance Computing                   |

> | SLURM   | Simple Linux Utility for Resource Management |

Reviewer: See other suggesting for adding links here

#SBATCH --mail-user=user@domain.com
#SBATCH --array=1-12%4 # job array index values

# load modules
...

# execute commands
...
```
This guide provides only a brief overview of the most important SLURM arguments,
to demysify the above directives and help you get started with SLURM.
For a more detailed description see the [SLURM documentation](https://slurm.schedmd.com/sbatch.html).

##  Commonly used arguments

### Partition (Queue)
- *Name:* `--partition`
- *Alias:* `-p`
- *Description:* Specifies the partition (or queue) to submit the job to. To see a list of all partitions/queues, the nodes they contain and their respective time limits, type `sinfo` when logged in to the HPC cluster.
- *Example values:* `gpu`, `cpu`, `fast`, `medium`

### Job Name
- *Name:* `--job-name`
- *Alias:* `-J`
- *Description:* Specifies a name for the job, which will appear in various SLURM commands and logs, making it easier to identify the job (especially when you have multiple jobs queued up)
- *Example values:* `training_run_24`

### Number of Nodes
- *Name:* `--nodes`
- *Alias:* `-N`
- *Description:* Defines the number of nodes required for the job.
- *Example values:* `1`

:::{warning}

> This should always be `1`, unless you really know what you're doing,
> e.g. you are parallelising your code across multiple nodes with MPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is usually `1` unless you're parallelising your code across multiple nodes with technologies such as MPI.
```

:::

### Number of Cores
- *Name:* `--ntasks`
- *Alias:* `-n`
- *Description:* Defines the number of cores (or tasks) required for the job.

> - *Example values:* `4`, `8`, `16`

Reviewer: Just to make it clear that `1` is often adequate, and that they don't need to be powers of 2 (as lots of things do need to be in computing).
```suggestion
- *Example values:* `1`, `5`, `20`
```

### Memory Pool for All Cores
- *Name:* `--mem`
- *Description:* Specifies the total amount of memory (RAM) required for the job across all cores (per node)

> - *Example values:* `8G`, `32G`, `64G`

Reviewer: Same reason as above.
```suggestion
- *Example values:* `4G`, `32G`, `64G`
```

### Time Limit
- *Name:* `--time`
- *Alias:* `-t`
- *Description:* Sets the maximum time the job is allowed to run. The format is D-HH:MM, where D is days, HH is hours, and MM is minutes.
- *Example values:* `0-01:00` (1 hour), `0-04:00` (4 hours), `1-00:00` (1 day).

:::{warning}

> If the job exceeds the time limit, it will be terminated by SLURM.
> On the other hand, avoid requesting way more time than what your job needs,
> as this may delay its scheduling (depending on resource availability).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the job exceeds the time limit, it will be terminated by SLURM.
On the other hand, avoid requesting way more time than what your job needs,
as this may delay its scheduling (depending on resource availability).

If needed, the systems administrator can extend long-running jobs. 
```
